Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger is serving his fifth term in the United States House of Representatives for the citizens of Maryland’s 2nd District. Congressman Ruppersberger is known as a common sense consensus builder who works with Members from both sides of the aisle to get results for Maryland and the nation.
Congressman Ruppersberger was the first Democratic freshman ever appointed to the House Select Committee on Intelligence. The committee oversees the collection and analysis of intelligence information from all around the world to ensure our national security and prevent potential crisis situations — especially terrorist activity.
Congressman Ruppersberger was named Ranking Member of the Intelligence Committee in 2011. The Ranking Member is the senior-­‐most member from the minority party and places Congressman Ruppersberger on the elite “Gang of Eight,” which refers to the four top members of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees along with the Senate Majority Leader, Senate Minority Leader, House Speaker and House Minority Leader. By law, the President must keep the Gang of Eight informed on our country’s most secret intelligence activities to maintain proper oversight. Previously, Congressman Ruppersberger chaired the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee – which oversees the country’s space program, cybersecurity and signal intelligence agencies– for four years.
Congressman Ruppersberger previously served on the powerful Appropriations and Government Reform Committees. He also served on the House Armed Services Committee, where he worked to help keep our country safe and make sure our veterans at home and as well as our warfighters on the frontlines have the resources they need.
Maryland’s 2nd District includes parts of Baltimore City as well as Baltimore, Anne Arundel, Harford and Howard Counties. It is a vital center of trade and commerce for the state and national economy and includes the Port of Baltimore and the thousands of businesses and manufacturing concerns dependent on it. The 2nd District is also home to the National Security Agency, Fort Meade, federal Cyber Command, Aberdeen Proving Ground, the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay and other installations essential to the country’s national security.
Creating jobs and improving Maryland’s economy is one of Congressman Ruppersberger’s top priorities. He is working hard to provide high-­‐quality, affordable healthcare for everyone and help seniors purchase reasonably priced prescription drugs. The Congressman is also fighting to keep our country safe and get our first responders the funds they need to protect our communities and our families.
A former assistant state’s attorney in Baltimore County, Congressman Ruppersberger decided to run for office after a near-­‐fatal car accident while investigating a drug trafficking case. Thanks to the dedication of doctors at the University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center, Congressman Ruppersberger survived and began campaigning for office to assist Shock Trauma after they saved his life. He remains an active supporter of the hospital, serving as Vice Chairman of its Board of Visitors. He also serves on the United States Naval Academy Board of Visitors.
Congressman Ruppersberger has served in public office for more than 27 years. He was elected to the Baltimore County Council in 1985 and again in 1989, chosen twice as council chairman. He was elected Baltimore County Executive in 1994 and 1998, and, under his leadership, the county was named one of the nation’s four best-­‐managed counties by Governing Magazine.
A native of Baltimore City, Congressman Ruppersberger spent his summers as a lifeguard and police officer in Ocean City, Md. He attended Baltimore City College and the University of Maryland at College Park, where he played lacrosse. He earned his Juris Doctorate from the University of Baltimore Law School.
The Congressman has been married for 43 years to his high school sweetheart, the former Kay Murphy. Together they have two grown children, Cory and Jill, and three grandchildren, Camden, Parker and Libby.