Ms. Letitia A. Long was appointed Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency August 9, 2010.
Prior to her appointment, Ms. Long served as the Deputy Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency from May 2006 until July 2010. Previously, she was the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (Policy, Requirements, and Resources) from June 2003 until May 2006. She also served in the positions of Deputy Director of Naval Intelligence from July 2000 to June 2003 and the Director of Central Intelligence’s Executive Director for Intelligence Community Affairs, responsible for community-wide policy formulation, resource planning and program assessment and evaluation between January 1998 and June 2000.
Ms. Long entered civilian federal service with the Navy in 1978 as a Project Engineer in training with the David Taylor Research Center. Upon completion of her degree in 1982, she continued with David Taylor Research Center for six years working on various submarine acoustic sensor programs. In 1988, Ms. Long joined the staff of the Director of Naval Intelligence where she managed Intelligence Research and Development programs.
Ms. Long was selected into the Senior Intelligence Executive Service in July 1994 and was dual-hatted as the Director, Requirements, Plans, Policy, and Programs for the Navy N2 staff as well as the Director of Resource Management for the Office of Naval Intelligence. From 1994 to 1996, Ms. Long was on rotational assignment from ONI to the Defense Intelligence Agency as Director of Military Intelligence Staff Director. In 1996, Ms. Long joined DIA as the Deputy Director for Information Systems and Services where she directed DIA’s worldwide information technology and communications programs. Ms. Long was also DIA’s first Chief Information Officer.
Ms. Long earned a bachelor’s of science degree in Electrical Engineering from Virginia Tech and a MS in Mechanical Engineering from the Catholic University of America. She is the recipient of the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Civilian Service, the Presidential Rank Award of Distinguished Executive, the Navy Distinguished Civilian Service Award, the Presidential Rank Award of Meritorious Executive (2 awards), the National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal (2 awards) and the Defense Intelligence Agency Director’s Award (2 awards).
